README.markdown, before:



loving build of [wordnet](http://wordnet.princeton.edu/) in JSON.

so you don't have to install, like a virtual masheen.


# Liberties taken

## Symmetric-relations
if the holonym of 'sausage' is 'sausage meat', the reverse (called a 'meronym') is almost always true.

As the beautiful George Miller [explains](http://books.google.ca/books?id=Rehu8OOzMIMC), the meronym-holonym relations, and the hypernym-hyponym relations are symmetric with few exceptions. Ignoring these exceptions reduces the filesize by half, so I did it.

To go from 'sausage meat' to 'sausage', just query the opposite direction.

## Antonyms on synsets
Adjective synsets in wordnet have no antonyms, but rather each individual word-sense has an antonym. This makes wordnet's antonym data really specific, but for most purposes, that's probably overdoing it.

## Kill 'Coordinate-terms'
Given wordnet is a graph, this is just redundant data.

## Reformatted glosses
Use only 1 gloss (description) per synset, and split it by semicolon-seperators.

## Same-As links
Most Nouns include freebase ids and wikipedia titles



# Contents

117,657 synsets in total

##82,113 Noun Synsets
hypernyms: Y is a hypernym of X if every X is a (kind of) Y (canine is a hypernym of dog)
hyponyms: Y is a hyponym of X if every Y is a (kind of) X (dog is a hyponym of canine)
meronym: Y is a meronym of X if Y is a part of X (window is a meronym of building)
holonym: Y is a holonym of X if X is a part of Y (building is a holonym of window)

##13,767 Verb Synsets
hypernym: the verb Y is a hypernym of the verb X if the activity X is a (kind of) Y (to perceive is an hypernym of to listen)
troponym: the verb Y is a troponym of the verb X if the activity Y is doing X in some manner (to lisp is a troponym of to talk)
entailment: the verb Y is entailed by X if by doing X you must be doing Y (to sleep is entailed by to snore)

##18,156 Adjective Synsets
related nouns
similar to
participle of verb


##3,621 Adverb Synsets
root adjectives


# roll your own build
to build your own, get a [freebase key](https://code.google.com/apis/console/?pli=1)
run 'npm install'
then 'node ./coffeejs/build.js'

Commit message:

minified json files saved 30mb uncompressed

README.markdown, after:



loving build of [wordnet](http://wordnet.princeton.edu/) in JSON.

no memory pointers, no python. no silly stuff at all.

the data is zipped for github, but it automatically unzips when you first use it.

if you just want the JSON, unzip ./data.zip
it's 6mb/32mb-uncompressed

# Liberties taken

## Symmetric-relations
if the holonym of 'sausage' is 'sausage meat', the reverse (called a 'meronym') is almost always true.

As the beautiful George Miller [explains](http://books.google.ca/books?id=Rehu8OOzMIMC), the meronym-holonym relations, and the hypernym-hyponym relations are symmetric with few exceptions. Ignoring these exceptions reduces the filesize by half, so I did it.

To go from 'sausage meat' to 'sausage', just query the opposite direction.

## Antonyms on synsets
Adjective synsets in wordnet have no antonyms, but rather each individual word-sense has an antonym. This makes wordnet's antonym data really specific, but for most purposes, that's probably overdoing it.

## Kill 'Coordinate-terms'
Given wordnet is a graph, this is just redundant data.

## Reformatted glosses
Use only 1 gloss (description) per synset, and split it by semicolon-seperators.

## Same-As links
Most Nouns include freebase ids and wikipedia titles



# Contents

117,657 synsets in total

##82,113 Noun Synsets
hypernyms: Y is a hypernym of X if every X is a (kind of) Y (canine is a hypernym of dog)
hyponyms: Y is a hyponym of X if every Y is a (kind of) X (dog is a hyponym of canine)
meronym: Y is a meronym of X if Y is a part of X (window is a meronym of building)
holonym: Y is a holonym of X if X is a part of Y (building is a holonym of window)

##13,767 Verb Synsets
hypernym: the verb Y is a hypernym of the verb X if the activity X is a (kind of) Y (to perceive is an hypernym of to listen)
troponym: the verb Y is a troponym of the verb X if the activity Y is doing X in some manner (to lisp is a troponym of to talk)
entailment: the verb Y is entailed by X if by doing X you must be doing Y (to sleep is entailed by to snore)

##18,156 Adjective Synsets
related nouns
similar to
participle of verb


##3,621 Adverb Synsets
root adjectives


# roll your own build
to build your own, get a [freebase key](https://code.google.com/apis/console/?pli=1) and put it in ./build.js
run 'npm install'
then 'node ./build.js'
